AltiumToTM240 is a program designed to prepare files for the TM240 pick and place machine.


The first step for running AltiumToTM240 is to export your pick and place file from altium.
In the pick and place export window it gives you a preview of the columns it will export along
with several settings related to the export. The required output columns and thier order
is given below:

Designator, Comment, Layer, Footprint, Center-X(mm), Center-Y(mm), Rotation, Height(mm)

Before hitting export you must also be sure to check Metric and CSV for the units and file type.


Now you need to find AltiumToTM240 and the feeders.json that has the currently loaded feeders.
If there are no feeders currently loaded onto the machine you will be okay not having a feeders.json.

Run AltiumToTM240. You can run either the .py or the .exe version, but you will need python
installed to run the .py version.



The program flow is below with explanations for each question:


--Generate pick and place file or edit feeders? (generate or edit, default: generate)
Choose generate.

--Enter your input file (Either full path or name of file in working directory, include file extension):
For this step make sure your pick and place file from altium is in the same folder as AltiumToTM240, and
enter the name of the file you exported from altium

--Enter production layer (Check your csv for the layer name, default: TopLayer):
Are you populating the top layer or bottom layer?

Note: for the bottom layer you may need to select y-flip bottom side components. To avoid dealing 
with this make your board so it only has components on the top side.

--Enter required x-axis origin offset in mm (default: 0):
--Enter required y-axis origin offset in mm (default: 0):
Distance from bottom left corner of board holder to the origin of your PCB. Look at 
your altium file to determine the origin of your PCB.



At this point the program will search through your components and attempt to match
the components on the layer your populating to feeders. If it fails to match any
component type to a feeder it will give the following message:

--[Component Name] not matched to an existing feeder
--Add new feeder, match to feeder manually, or skip? (new, match, skip; default: skip)

The name of the component listed (this name comes from the "comment" field for the component in altium)
did not match any of the feeder names. If this component should be matched to a cerruently mounted feeder
select match to manually specify the component you want placed, if you would like to add a feeder for
this component select new, otherwise select skip and the component will not be placed.

Ask a coach for help adding a new feeder.

